[suspenseful music playing]
[water bubbles]
["Ayee" by Belvia playing]
[seagulls squawking]
["Ayee" by Belvia continues]
[indistinct chatter]
[in Kamtok] Please.
There is enough fish for everyone.
-You have to serve me first.
-No. I was here first.
Ekah. you need to serve me.
I live far off.
Yes. yes. I know who
came first and who was last.
OK. let's do this--
whoever stands in line.
will get extra fish.
[woman] Yes.
How much do you need?
[music continues]
[in English] Wow!
Eighteen thousand?
[in Kamtok] Business was good today.
[in English] See. take this one.
[in Kamtok] Buy something for yourself.
-Papa!
-Take it!
Keep it! You need it more than I do.
Oh! My "little mother."
This business would be nothing
without you.
[in English] Thank you.
[in Kamtok] Thank you.
[in English] We'll go house.
We'll go house.
Huh.
[music continues]
[groaning sound]
Mommy.
[breathes heavily]
[groans]
[in Kamtok] Sorry.
[weakly. in English] Water.
Water.
["Free" by Belvia playing]
♪ I am guilty of everything
that's happened around me ♪
♪ And everything
I've been through lately ♪
♪ His hands are dirty. sore ♪
♪ Yet I am guilty for how I've gone ♪
♪ And how much I've learned ♪
♪ Not a wall would know me ♪
♪ Oh. bye-bye ♪
♪ Now you're givin' me power ♪
♪ Now you're givin' me strength ♪
♪ You said I am free ♪
-♪ Oh. bye-bye... ♪
-[song fades]
[in Kamtok] Why the stare. Papa?
Because the fish is well roasted.
The fish is very delicious.
[fire crackling]
[in English] You know why
we give you the name. Ekah?
Yes. Papa.
Why'd we give you that name?
[in Kamtok]
Because it was your mother's name.
Hmm.
When I look at you.
all I see is my mother.
You look just like her.
[in English] Even the way you burn
this fish. you burn it like my mama.
Papa!
[in Kamtok] If I don't take care of you.
who will?
Hmm.
I want you to know. our hard work.
is not in vain.
[in English] People notice.
Hmm.
[in Kamtok] If you ask for the top
three fish people in this village...
[in English] ...they will call my name.
And when they call my name.
they will call your name. too.
Eh? You do fine work.
[in Kamtok] Keep up the good work.
[Ekah. in English] Yes. Papa.
Papa. if I ask you something...
Hmm.
You be like your mommy plenty now?
[in Kamtok] Most definitely.
[in English] I be like my mama plenty.
[in Kamtok] Do you love my mother?
You are too young to understand.
When you grow up.
you will understand.
[in English] When you grow. we will talk.
[in Kamtok] Do you hear me?
[in English] Don't worry.
[in Kamtok] Eat!
My "little mother."
Papa.
Welcome.
[in English] Fine works. mama.
Fine work.
[baby crying]
Give me that bucket.
Give me.
Papa.
-[crying continues]
-[man speaking indistinctly]
[in Kamtok]
I don't want to ever leave you.
This can never happen to you.
You will not be a slave.
in any man's house.
Huh!
The teacher is waiting for her fish.
Rush there.
Hmm.
Quickly. don't be late.
Huh.
[school kids singing]
[teacher] Ekah.
Ekah.
Ekah!
Teacher.
[in English] I have been calling.
[in Kamtok] I brought your fish.
[in English] This fish is too small.
[in Kamtok] That's how you always buy it.
[in English] Are you kidding me?
This fish is small.
I've been buying from Solomon.
he should understand.
It's too small. Look.
[smacks lips]
Here.
Careful.
[Solomon. in Kamtok]
The teacher wasn't in school?
She was. Papa.
[in English] Then why waste time so?
[in Kamtok] Papa. I saw kids singing
school songs. I love it.
How much Kiki's mother owe us?
[in English]
Six thousand five hundred. Papa.
[in Kamtok]
Huh. go and call your Uncle Lucas.
Tell him to come fast...
Let's go and collect that debt.
OK?
Don't take too long.
[in English] You hear me?
["Yayayo" by Awu playing]
[woman] I go see Barbara yesterday.
[in Kamtok] She might die very soon.
-Are you serious?
-I'm very serious.
Death is calling her name.
She will leave us soon.
Die with all of that education?
You sound like education is important.
Education is useless.
It destroys families.
Only lazy and stupid people go to school.
Everyone I know in this village.
who dared to be educated is poor. ma.
[in English] Lisa! You sure?
I would lie you?
OK.
See. eh. that lazy boy. Peter.
[in Kamtok]
He still lives with his parents.
No pocket money.
[in English] Joe too. the same thing.
[in Kamtok]
Foolish Barbara decided to join them. too.
Barbara's case is heart-breaking.
[in English] A long story.
A long story for Barbara.
[in Kamtok] Talk less of Rita...
She went to school to study.
and instead got pregnant.
[in English] Yes. yes. yes. Rita!
[sighs]
Rita!
[girl. in Kamtok]
Mama. you know I hate school.
I prefer to be a fish girl
rather than go to school.
Or even get married like Aunty Rita.
Smart thinking. Andong.
You are a smart girl.
I will buy you garri.
so you can eat it with fish.
["Yayayo" by Awu continues]
[groans]
-Mommy?
-[groan]
Mommy!
Mommy. Mommy!
Papa!
Mommy.
[groaning]
Mommy! Papa!
Mommy.
[groans. wheezing]
Papa! Mommy.
Mommy. Pa--
Pa--
[crying]
[sobbing]
["Help Me" by Belvia playing]
[sobbing continues]
["Help Me" by Belvia continues]
[rooster crows]
[soft music playing]
[in Kamtok] Solo.
how did you find this beautiful place?
[in English]
I'm a fisherman! I'm a fisherman!
[in Kamtok] It was here...
[in English] ...when my papa ask
my mama. if they can marry.
You like. huh?
[in Kamtok] Yes. it is very beautiful.
[in English] So...
what will we do today?
Barbara. I like you.
And the way I like you.
only in calculator it will show up.
Aww. Solo.
The way I like you...
[in Kamtok]
...even a calculator cannot show it.
[both laugh]
["E Go Betta" by Mr. Leo playing]
[in English] See...
[in Kamtok] You know.
I cannot make a good family.
if I don't have a good wife.
[in English] You are the woman
who done touched my heart.
[chuckles]
Any time I look inside your eyes.
my body just makes some kind...
I like you. Barbara.
I want you to be my woman.
Be my woman. we could make
some fine family. me and you.
That I dream about.
you know. ever since...
Make me your woman. Solo.
I will be your woman.
-[in Kamtok] Is that a yes?
-[in English] Yes!
[both laugh]
[in Kamtok]
You see why I say you melt my heart?
[both laugh]
Thank you for the beautiful shoes.
I like them a lot.
[in English] Ah!
I could do everything for my Barbara.
["Musica" by Vernyuy Tina playing]
Teacher.
What are you doing here?
What's that?
Let me see.
[Ekah. in Kamtok] What is she saying?
[in English] "One child.
one teacher.
one book.
and one pen. can change the world."
"If one man can destroy the world.
why can't one girl...
...change it?"
[in Kamtok] Wh-- What is her name?
[in English] She is called Malala.
[Solomon] Ekah!
Papa.
[in Kamtok] What will you do?
This is what killed your mother.
Have you eaten?
OK.
Help take off my shoes.
I have saved some money.
I will buy you a new fish band next month.
OK?
So you can roast fish very well.
Your father go. see a friend.
Ekah.
-[in Kamtok] Yes. uncle.
-You are a very good child.
Everyone is proud of you.
[in English] Thank-- Thank you. uncle.
If one of my three boy. them.
they cook like you so.
I would have been a happy man.
[in Kamtok]
Your father is very respected here.
because of you.
[in English] No change. eh.
[in Kamtok] You should never change.
Let me rush to work.
Uh...
Ekah!
Have you ever asked yourself
why all these educated kids are poor?
They are lazy kids.
You understand? They are very lazy kids.
Education is not for women.
All right. Think about this.
Has an educated person
ever bought fish from you.
without arguing the price?
Huh?
They are poor. We even feed them.
Yes. we do.
Stay just the way you are.
We like you as you are.
[in English] Not change.
[in Kamtok]
Let nobody deceive you with education.
Education is bad for women.
You understand?
Let me rush to work.
[Andong] Ekah.
[Ekah] Andong.
-[both in Kamtok] How are you?
-I'm all right.
Ekah.
My uncle came back yesterday.
He says I will start school on Monday.
I don't want to go to school.
Please. give me an excuse to tell him.
I hate school.
Andong.
Sorry. I have to go.
We'll talk some other time.
["Ayagayo" by Salatiel playing]
♪ I woke up with a good vibe ♪
♪ Closed my eyes and saw a good sign ♪
♪ Something different
Something too nice ♪
♪ This life we living no be two times ♪
♪ If you know then you know
If you no know then you no know ♪
♪ Don't worry about it ♪
♪ If i' show then i' show... ♪
[in English] Why you wake up late. so?
[in Kamtok]
You had too much work yesterday?
I slept late.
I have repaired the engine.
The new kick-starter is working fine.
♪ Good times don't come easy ♪
♪ But they do ♪
-♪ Just remember. please to sing ♪
-♪ Ayo. Ayo. Ayo ♪
♪ Ayaga yagayo ♪
♪ Ayo Ayo ♪
♪ Ayo. Ayo. Ayo. Ayaga yagayo ♪
♪ I can see people smiling ♪
♪ Aya Gaya Gayo ♪
♪ Music playing ♪
♪ Children dancing ♪
♪ Aya Gaya Gayo ♪
♪ My people happy ♪
♪ Aya Gaya Gayo... ♪
[woman] Ekah.
Ekah!
Ekah! [clapping hands]
[in Kamtok]
Hah. are you OK?
-What did you say?
-Where is your father?
Ekah!
Where is your father?
♪ Oh yes indeed. yes indeed ♪
♪ You know that I got a vibe ♪
♪ But if you know then you know
If you no know then you no know ♪
♪ Don't worry about it ♪
♪ And if i' go then i' go... ♪
[woman in Kamtok]
Please serve my fish. I have to go.
Madam. I beg you.
If you can't wait.
then you go to a different place.
What did you say?
[in English] I said. if you no feel wait.
then you go different place.
[in Kamtok] I'm leaving.
[in English] Give my money.
[Ekah] Which money?
[in Kamtok] Didn't I pay you?
[in English] Give my balance.
Madam. I beg no just start.
[in Kamtok] You never give me nothing.
and you can't trick me. Never!
-Eh?
-[Solomon] Ekah!
-Madam. please don't be mad.
-If not for you. I would have left.
-I'll serve you-- she forgot.
-It is only because of you.
Don't be angry. please understand.
I have heard you.
[in English] She buy fish for 3.000.
She give 5.000. Give balance.
[in Kamtok] So. she even has the change.
Please don't be angry. Please understand.
Have you been served?
Serve me!
Lucas.
Huh.
Sule.
[in Kamtok] Welcome.
Mustapha. How are you?
Huh?
What is it?
[in English] Give me my money.
Hah.
[in Kamtok] This is a joke. right?
[in English] You know time?
[in Kamtok] Lucas. I didn't come here
to joke with you.
[smacks lips]
You can't ask for a debt. at this time.
Ah-ah.
I gave you the money in these times.
[in English] Anyway...
[in Kamtok] Based on calculations.
I can only pay you next month.
I don't have the money now.
[in Kamtok]
Lucas. enough of your stupid jokes.
Do you see me laughing?
I am not joking. I don't have money.
Next month.
Lucas. you are a liar.
[in English] Lucas. you lie.
[in Kamtok] Don't we see you selling
coconut water by the sea every day?
How can he talk this?
[in English] Who give you the power
to come to my compound.
and curse me?
I do owe you?
[in Kamtok]
Lucas. Mustapha is telling the truth.
You cannot dribble me
like Samuel Eto'o. on a football pitch.
Lucas. if you don't pay my money...
you will be dead.
Hmm...
[in English] You come my house.
you can't threaten me.
[in Kamtok] Sule. Look...
[in English] I go cover my eye...
I'll count from one to five.
[in Kamtok] When I open my eyes.
and you're still here.
I promise you...
one of you will be dead.
[in English] One.
Two.
Three.
Four.
Five.
No. Sule?
Eh. what is this?
[in Kamtok] You don't know how to joke?
[in English] Eh. my brother.
[in Kamtok] Let's fix this like men...
Let's fix it like brothers.
[in English] W-Why?
[in Kamtok] My brother. you will be dead
if you don't pay my money.
[in English] OK. OK.
[in Kamtok] The money is in my pocket.
[in English] My pocket.
[in Kamtok] Let's fix this like brothers.
Please.
[in English] How much?
It's 4.000.
Four thousand?
[in Kamtok] You owe me 70.000.
[in English] Sule. that's all I have.
I tell you...
you give me some time. no?
[in Kamtok] That's all I have right now.
Lucas. you must finish paying me my money.
[in English] OK. You go take firewood?
[scoffs]
[in English] What?
You're not gonna need to buy
firewood again for two year.
I swear.
[in Kamtok] Here is the wood.
["Kuweh" by Achuo playing]
[in Kamtok] Drink it while it's still hot.
It will cure your cough. Drink it.
[in English] Drink.
Something that worry you?
[in Kamtok] Is something disturbing you?
You look worried.
The misunderstanding with that
woman should not disturb you.
OK?
You were too busy.
So you got confused.
It can happen to anyone.
Do you understand? Don't worry. drink up.
Drink it before it gets cold
[in English] Drink.
I want to go to school.
School is not for fish people like we.
And you being a woman.
[in Kamtok] That is a bad idea.
What will the villagers say?
What will those same people say...
when I go to school
and start making money?
I mean. a lot of money.
Nobody in this house
would need to go fishing.
every day. 24/7.
Our lives would be changed forever.
Solo.
They say.
a blind person cannot lead another.
Fishing is for young people.
[in English] OK.
[in Kamtok] What would happen
when we got old and couldn't go fishing?
God has blessed us with just one kid.
And it's a girl.
What God has blessed us with. is fishing.
And we can't change it.
I disagree with you.
["Day & Night" by Ewube playing]
[slams door]
[footsteps]
[Solomon] My "little mother."
[in English] You say you want
to go to school...
You asked me the other time.
if I like your mama.
[in Kamtok] Do you want
to know the answer now?
Do you?
[in English] I never ever liked my skin.
[in Kamtok] Every love and care I had...
I gave it to your mother.
When my mother and brother Lucas
tried to say anything bad about her.
I kicked my mother out of the house.
Nobody loves your mother more than me.
I mean. nobody.
Not even God.
And not even you.
You don't love her more than I do.
It seems the devil took over her.
She started talking to me
like a mad woman.
[in English] My fiancé...
has accepted to pay
every dime you spent on me.
including interest.
-I will pay you back.
-No. no. no.
[in Kamtok]
No. you can't utter such words.
I refuse to accept this.
[in English] You are my woman!
Try to understand. papa.
I beg.
[in Kamtok] Let me go.
Is this what education does?
-That man doesn't love you...
-Please. hold it!
[in English] Do I look like a kid?
Oh. you want to teach me about love?
This whole place is a mental prison.
I wouldn't want her to suffocate
in this madness.
I will die first...
[in Kamtok] ...than let you make
the same mistakes as your mother.
[in English] No happen.
[in Kamtok]
You hear me? You hear me?!
[in English]
No happen again.
Not going to happen.
["Day & Night" by Ewube continues]
Ekah.
Andong.
[in Kamtok] I'm sorry.
-[in English] Thank you.
-[in Kamtok] I'm sorry. too.
Where is your mother?
She went out.
Didn't you say
you do not want to go to school?
My uncle came yesterday.
and made a big deal out of it.
About what?
When my father died in the fishing waters.
my uncle promised to send me to school.
He has been sending money for school fees.
but my mom has been spending it.
Yesterday. after the fight.
he bought me two uniforms.
then this morning he went
and paid my school fees.
How was it?
What?
[in English] School.
[in Kamtok] It was boring.
I had no idea what the teacher was saying.
[in English] One divided by two.
[in Kamtok] I was in class
but thinking about us.
How we were free
and enjoying being by the seaside.
[teacher. in English]
What are the factors of six?
Who knows the answer?
Anybody?
-Say One.
-[pupils] One.
[teacher]
Factors of six. I started with one.
What would be the next?
-Two.
-[pupils] Two.
-Three.
-[pupils] Three.
-Six...
-[pupils] Six.
[teacher] So the factors of six will be...
[pupils] One. two. three. six.
So. we have learned the factors of six.
Now...
["Musica" by Vernyuy Tina playing]
[in Kamtok] Take this 300 francs
and buy something for yourself.
-[in English] Papa. thank you.
-Huh.
-[in Kamtok] Go home and cook. I'm hungry.
-[in English] Papa. I already cooked.
-How about dirty clothes then?
-Alreadty washed them.
Hmm.
[in Kamtok]
OK. Go home and have some deserved rest.
Go rest.
["Musica" by Vernyuy Tina continues]
["Di Feng" by Lesline playing]
[teacher. in English] If a boy takes
two hours to clear a hectare of land.
how many minutes will four boys take
to clear that same portion of land?
If a boy takes two hours
to clear a hectare of land.
how many minutes will four boys take
to clear this same portion of land?
-Two hours to clear a hectare of land...
-[Ekah] Thirty minutes!
Who said that?
Ekah?
Wait! Ekah?
Come. Come to class.
I was thinking you'd forgotten about me.
This fish keeps reducing every day.
Are you sure this is fish
for 2.000 francs?
Yes.
Come this way.
Careful.
OK.
It's OK.
Oh. Your money. Sorry.
Ekah.
Who taught you arithmetic?
-No man.
-Ekah. don't lie to me.
You can't tell me you learnt arithmetic
by giving change to your customers.
Tell me the truth.
[in Kamtok] It's you.
[in English] Me? How?
[in Kamtok] I peep through
the window every day to learn.
[in English]
Is that how you learned arithmetic?
OK.
If one girl takes one hour
to wash 50 plates...
how long will three girls take to wash
those similar number of plates?
Twenty minutes.
Four people are standing in line.
John is three meters behind Laura
and two meters in front of Peter.
Paul is four meters in front of Laura.
What is the distance
between Peter and Paul?
[stutters]
Nine meters.
Does your father know about this?
OK. Bye.
["Dege Dege" by Awu playing]
-[in Kamtok] Brother.
-Hmm.
I need your help.
I need that money before the deadline.
Lucas! 66.000.
If I had that kind of money.
Ekah would get a new fish barn.
I don't have it.
Ekah's father.
-Teacher Bihbih.
-[in English] Yes.
-[in Kamtok] What are you doing here?
-[in English] Good afternoon.
-Do I need permission?
-[in Kamtok] Not at all.
Just that people like you
only come out on special occasions.
[in English]
I came so that you and I could talk.
Just the both of us.
[in Kamtok] If you have anything to say.
tell him here.
[in English]
I am not talking to you. please.
[in Kamtok] Teacher Bihbih.
if there is something. just say it here.
Have a seat.
so you can be offered a drink.
-Have a seat.
-[in English] No. I'm fine. Thank you.
Um...
Actually. I came so that
you and I could talk something
very important about your daughter.
-My Ekah?
-Yes.
[in Kamtok] In my family. we do not cheat.
The fish we give you is the right size.
[in English] Everything is fine.
In fact. even better. Yes.
[Solomon] Ah-hah.
We thank God.
[in Kamtok] Have a glass of palm wine.
I'm fine. Thank you.
[in English] Ekah. Mr. Solomon.
that child. she could be the next
big thing in this village.
[clears throat]
[in Kamtok] All this time that I taught.
I had no idea Ekah
watched through a hole to learn.
[in English]
My Ekah come to your school?
Yes.
-My Ekah?
-Yes.
And the good thing about it is.
I asked some very hard question today...
[in Kamtok] ...and she answered.
[in English] Mr. Solomon.
And to even be more sure.
I asked more question...
[in Kamtok]
...and she answered all of them.
Your daughter...
was God-sent for your family.
Are you out of your mind?
[in English] I'm not joking.
I'm very serious.
In fact.
you should get her enrolled in school.
She could benefit from the opportunities.
other people. in school.
Mr. Solomon.
Brother.
[in Kamtok] Why do bad luck
always choose your house?
[in English] Again and again.
[in Kamtok] Before it was Barbara.
now. it's Ekah.
[in English] Why?
[in English] My Ekah go to school?
My Ekah?
-Mr. Solomon?
-Hey. hey. hey!
[in Kamtok] What is it?
Everywhere. school. school. school.
If school was that good.
you will not be dressed like this.
You look like a replica of Pinocchio!
Nonsense. sit down!
[in English] Brother!
[dramatic music playing]
[screams]
Papa. Papa. Papa. Papa...
[screaming continues]
[in Kamtok]
You want to become like your mother?
-[in English] No. Papa. No.
-[in Kamtok] You want to be stubborn?
Lay down there!
I said. lay down!
Lay down!
[in English] No. Papa. please.
[in Kamtok] Will you set your foot
in that school again?
[in English] No. Papa.
[in Kamtok]
Will you go to that class again?
No. Papa! Never! [screams]
-I can't hear you!
-I will never go there again. Papa!
Will I see you in that school again?
I will never go there again. Papa!
I promise!
-I can't hear you.
-I promise. Papa!
[crying]
-You hear me?
-Yes. Papa.
[crying continues]
-Solo. you are a strong man.
-[Ekah crying]
-You are a strong man.
-[Ekah continues crying]
Solo. you are a strong man.
[Solomon] Bihbih!
[in English] Teacher Bihbih?
[door unlocks]
Mr. Solomon--
[in Kamtok] I want to warn you
to stay away from my family.
Take your madness somewhere else.
Do you hear me?
You hear. no?
Don't put your madness
in my daughter's head.
I love her the way she is.
I'm warning you for the last time.
["Help Me" by Belvia playing]
[Ekah groans]
[groaning continues]
This is what I don't like.
[in English] See your back.
[in Kamtok] You are becoming too stubborn.
[in English] I don't like.
[Ekah groans]
[in Kamtok]
"Little mother." is it painful?
Is it painful?
Sorry.
I'm so sorry. my "little mother."
[in English] You hear?
Huh.
[in Kamtok] Sorry.
["Day & Night" by Ewube playing]
["Day & Night" by Ewube continues]
[no audible dialogue]
How was fishing?
It was good.
Ekah didn't follow you today.
Ekah got me really angry.
I got her well beaten.
She was well beaten.
I witnessed it.
You did the right thing.
I do the same to my boys
when they are stubborn.
Anchor the canoe on the other side.
-Lucas.
-[in English] Yeah.
When I remember what my Barbara do for me.
and I see Ekah do the same things.
I don't like.
[in Kamtok] I didn't know
I still had this much anger in me.
[in English] No worry. Solo. No worry.
[in Kamtok] Look.
You need to keep this kid on her toes.
Don't let her become
like your wife. Barbara.
If I were you.
I would desecrate on Barbara's grave.
[in English] Teach sense in her head.
["Holla Holla" by Fhish playing]
♪ Turn out. turn out the lights
Turn out the lights ♪
♪ Let it shine ♪
♪ I know I've been quiet for too long ♪
♪ But I'm done... ♪
Hey. sir. Welcome back.
[man] Thank you.
So how are you managing with the school?
Everything is going on fine
in your absence. sir.
Good.
Madam Bih.
You're aware that this school
was established out of sweat.
tears. and blood.
I fought through a battle of hell
to get these fish people.
to establish the roots of the school here.
I will do everything possible
not to get into trouble with them.
OK?
Of course. sir. We will.
Now I have been informed that
there's a girl here by the name of Ekah.
who has been attending classes
without her father's permission--
-I can exp--
-I am still talking.
We'll not establish
any confrontational habits
in front of these people.
No child will step his or her feet
on these premises
without their parents' consent.
Is that understood?
Madam Bih.
I chose you as the lone teacher
of this school.
not because your performance
was outstanding amongst delegation.
but because of your firmness.
Please.
I beg of you.
Do not make me have a rethink.
Are we clear?
-Very clear. sir.
-Good.
So what were you going to say?
Nothing. sir.
I thought as much.
And how are the children fairing--
Are they getting set for the exams?
I'm doing my very best. sir.
You may go back to class.
[Bihbih] If a boy takes two hours
to clear a hectare of land.
how many minutes will four boys take
to clear this same portion of land?
If a boy takes two hours
to clear a hectare of land.
how many minutes will four boys take
to clear this same portion of land?
-[in Kamtok] Papa. welcome.
-Hmm.
Have you taken the medicine
I prepared for you?
[in English] Yes. Papa.
Hmm.
[in Kamtok] Did you manage to cook food?
[in English] Yes. Papa.
[in Kamtok] I did everything as assigned.
I even mended a few nets.
I think I can go fishing
with you tomorrow.
Huh. heat my food. I'm hungry.
Your food is hot. Papa.
I knew you would be
coming back at this time.
[in English] But...
[in Kamtok] It's good you take
a shower first. before I serve your food.
Warm water is already in the bathroom.
Huh.
[in English] OK.
["Giving Up" by Lesline playing]
[exhales deeply]
♪ Ooh ♪
♪ Ooh. I feel like giving up... ♪
[knock at the door]
Come in.
Ekah.
-Teacher.
-What are you doing here?
[in Kamtok]
Teacher. Please. I want to learn.
♪ Ooh. I feel like giving up ♪
[in English] I cannot teach you...
I cannot help you as it is.
We cannot even be seen together.
I'm so sorry. I can't.
[in Kamtok]
They say those who go to school
can change their families...
-[in Kamtok] Teacher. please help me.
-[in English] Wake up. Wake up. Wake up.
You don't have to kneel before I help you.
I freely want to help you. Ekah.
But it's not in my power to do that.
You don't want me losing my job. do you?
♪ Ooh ♪
♪ Ooh. I feel like giving up ♪
♪ Ooh... ♪
[suspenseful music playing]
Mr. Mustapha.
Hey.
[in Kamtok] How are you?
Have you brought my brother's money?
Mr. Sule. greetings.
Have you brought my money?
Mr. Sule.
You are a good man.
A good man like me.
That's why I have come to see you.
so together
we can come to a one-time solution.
Lucas.
Many days have elapsed.
and you still haven't brought my money.
Exactly.
-You think I'm stupid. right?
-[in English] No. No...
[in Kamtok] I can call two of my boys.
to roughen you up.
Yes.
I think it's time I allow Mustapha
to deal with you.
Right.
Mr. Sule.
I came here for a reason.
Please. just listen to me.
What I have to tell you
is better than money.
[Mustapha. in Arabic] Truthfully. Lucas...
[in Kamtok] You take us for fools?
We are not foolish.
[in Arabic] I swear.
[in Kamtok]
Sule. this guy wants to sell us wood.
No. I don't want to sell you wood.
Mr. Sule. look.
You have a good heart.
Just like that of Jesus Christ.
Like Jesus Christ?
-Jesus Christ?
-[in English] No.
-[in Kamtok] You call me Jesus Christ?
-[in English] No. No.
[in Kamtok] I wanted to say. you have
a good heart like Prophet Muhammad.
Both of you have a heart
like that of Prophet Muhammad.
That's what I wanted to say.
OK.
You say I have a heart.
-like that of Prophet Muhammad?
-Yes. that's true.
A good heart like that
of Holy Prophet Muhammad. I swear.
[Mustapha] OK.
What do you want to tell me.
that is better than my money?
Hey! Stop right there.
It's a private talk. just our ears.
Very private talk.
[no audible dialoge]
-Lucas.
-[laughter]
Lucas.
Is it a good deal?
[in English] Who can come up to the board
and show us how to solve this?
Anyone?
Can someone come up to the board
and show us how to solve
this simple problem?
This is something
we have been studying for weeks.
and this is the same thing
that will come in your exams next week.
Can anyone come up to the board
and show us how to solve this?
I taught you this some weeks ago.
so everybody should be able
to come to the board to solve this.
Everybody down on your knees.
Simple problem.
I taught you this a while ago
and nobody can remember.
Show me your hand.
Next. next... show me your hand.
["Bonbon Sifflet" by Fhish playing]
Ahh!
Barbara.
How you come back so quick so?
-[in Kamtok] How did the exams go?
-Solomon.
I told you my name is not Barbara.
[in English] Call me Barbie. please.
[in Kamtok] OK.
[in English] Sorry.
But you write well?
[in Kamtok] Is there food?
There is. but it's still cold.
[in English] So you expect me to come back
from school and eat cold food?
Mm.
If you wait. ma'a.
I finish sewing my trousa.
I-I will warm it for you.
It is not "trousa."
It's "trouser."
"Trousa."
Trouser.
Why is it so difficult for you
to understand simple teachings?
Illiteracy. they say.
is brother to madness.
Nah.
[in Wum]
It can't happen to my daughter...
Not my daughter.
[in English] Nonsense.
[in Wum] Who's a big fool now?
Definitely not me.
"Trousa."
"Trousa!"
Ekah.
[in English]
What are you doing here at this time?
I thought I told you
we cannot be seen together.
Yes. teacher.
Then what are you doing
here at this time. alone?
This.
What about it?
"One...
[reading with difficulty]
c'ild.
one teac'er.
one...
book.
and one pen.
can "cange" the world."
"If one man can...
des-- destroy the world.
-why can't..."
-Let me see.
You're good in calculations. but you're
still lagging in reading and spelling.
Teacher. I beg. teach me.
Ekah. I thought I told you we can't--
[in Kamtok] I will do whatever you want.
[Bihbih. in English]
Just teaching how to sound.
-This is "S."
-[repeating]
-Do you remember this one?
-"H."
OK. good.
If you put it together.
it will give you "sh."
-"Shh."
-"Shh!"
[both shushing]
You have to put your mouth like this.
"Shh."
["Yuti" by Vernyuy Tina ft Kikoh playing]
[inaudible dialog]
OK.
[reading with clarity]
"One teacher.
one book.
and one pen
can change...
the world."
-Good. Go on.
-"If one man
...can...
destroy the world.
why can't one girl
-change it?"
-Great!
That's good.
Yay! Come. Wow.
I'm so happy.
You read it.
Wow.
Yay.
Come.
I'm so happy.
[exhales deeply]
You're awesome. You're so great.
"If one man can destroy the world.
why can't one girl change it?”
[thuds]
[footsteps]
[suspenseful music playing]
[in Kamtok] What were you doing?
-[in English] Me?
-Yes. you.
[in Kamtok] What were you doing?
I was... fixing the bed.
Let me rush to the meeting
before it starts raining.
You understand? Huh. I will be back.
["Yuti" by Vernyuy Tina
ft Kikoh continues]
[in English] Are you done?
I will check it when I rest. OK?
-Teacher.
-Yes?
If I ask you a question?
Go on.
This girl.
Hmm?
Malala?
[singing Wum songs]
[whispers]
[Bihbih]
Malala Yousafzai is a Pakistani girl.
who became an advocate
for girls' education.
even when since she was still young.
This resulted to the Taliban
terrorist group
issuing a death threat against her.
[sighs]
She was known for her focus.
her determination and her wish
for every girl child to be educated.
This dream didn't stop.
even after she was shot by this
terrorist group because of her views.
She said...
"When the whole world is silent.
even one voice becomes powerful."
The extremists
are afraid of books and pens.
The power of education frightens them.
They are afraid of women.
[Solomon] Ekah.
[knock at the door]
-Come.
-Ekah.
Ekah!
[dramatic music playing]
[knock]
[knocking continues]
[in Kamtok] Where is Ekah?
-Where is Ekah?
-[in English] What nonsense is this?
Ekah is not here.
[in Kamtok] You think
I came here for jokes?
Where is my daughter?
-[in English] Ekah is not here.
-[Lucas] Bihbih?
Bihbih!
[in Kamtok] Where is she?
[Solomon] I know she's here.
[in English] We'll look inside room.
No one should step into my room.
Hey! Hey!
[Solomon] Ekah.
Ekah.
[dramatic music playing]
[in Kamtok] She is not here. Lucas.
Let's go home.
She is not here.
[screams]
[in Kamtok] I will beat you until
your mother's bad genes are out.
[in English] What have you done?
What have you done!
You disrespect me and you put
this entire institution into jeopardy?
-Sir. this kid is different.
-So bloody what?
Listen to me.
We will not stake this school
and the future of every other children
because of one girl.
Have you heard me?
Hear me out. I repeat. We will not!
But I didn't even teach her
on the premise.
Who bloody cares where you taught her?
Who bloody cares?
Huh? Oh. oh. oh...
I can see you prefer your little
tangle of that little fish girl
rather than the interest
of this institution. Isn't that so?
I have had it up to here.
I've had it up to here
because of your insubordination.
I'm writing against you.
I'm writing a letter against you
to the inspector of basic education.
Have you heard me?
On what basis. sir?
She is a child like every other.
and she came to me. not once. not twice.
She has every right to be educated
like every other child.
Now. listen to me.
I will not fall
for that emotional blackmail.
Have you heard me?
You will not remain employed
in these premises.
not any longer.
I will use every connection I can muster
to remove you.
before you destroy this institution.
Nonsense.
Miscreant!
If you like use all the networks you have.
And you. what are you looking at.
look forward.
Potatoes!
This is not good at all.
This is terrible. and bad for our image.
["Oweh" by Blaise B playing]
This is very poor results.
This just goes to show
how unserious we are.
But I've been doing my best. sir.
Well. your best is clearly
not good enough. Madam Bih.
It's obvious. It shows in their results.
Look at this.
Very appalling results.
Not even 12 over 20?
This automatically just
disqualifies us from Bamenda.
I am not happy.
I am not happy with you at all.
I'm sorry. sir.
So. so terrible.
Which one is this?
15/20.
This is good.
This is very good.
Ha. How come you say there
is no one brilliant among the student?
This is a very good result.
-Sir. this belongs to Diana.
-Yes.
Yes. it's very good
and it gives us a ray of hope.
You should work on her.
This is very good. Work on her some more.
-Unfortunately. we cannot. sir.
-Why not?
She's a fisherman's daughter.
That is the score she had
in the same exam our pupils took.
But...
But. sir. she can still stand in.
Bih.
Is it that I talk too fast
or you listen too slow?
Rules are rules and we are not going
to break them. do you understand me?
You must do everything in your power
to prepare a registered kid.
Everything!
We are going to Bamenda!
["Oweh" by Blaise B continues]
[solemn music playing]
-[Lucas] Solo.
-Hmm.
-[in Kamtok] Lucas. welcome.
-Thank you.
Those people have not still
fixed the light?
They haven't.
I looked for you
at the seaside today to no avail.
I decided to stay home
and keep an eye on Ekah.
She has been locked up in the room.
How long will you keep an eye on her?
Until she learns a lesson.
When will that happen?
[sighs]
Lucas.
Why am I so unfortunate?
I don't look for trouble.
but bad things keep happening to me.
Solo.
[in English] I think. say.
I know how we can handle this Ekah matter.
I beg. tell me.
[in Kamtok] I think...
we should give her to someone
who can control her better.
[in English] Like who?
-God?
-No.
[in Kamtok] Find her a husband.
What did you say?
[in English] You want me to
give Ekah for marriage?
No.
[in Kamtok] I can't do that.
Think about it.
Think!
[in English] My Ekah?
[in Kamtok] Our "little mother"?
Marry her off at this age?
That's impossible.
If you marry her off. the responsibility
will not be on you anymore.
The shame wouldn't be on you.
like the case of your late wife. Barbara.
Think about it.
I don't want anyone to abuse my child.
[in English] Leave that all for me.
[in Kamtok] I will fix that.
You can count on me.
Look. Solo. [in English] I like the way
you'd handle Ekah matter.
[in Kamtok] You are a strong man.
A very strong man.
Our late parents
must be very proud of you.
Good job.
You need to keep going.
Believe me.
[indistinct commentary on radio]
[phone vibrating]
[reduces volume]
[in English]
Good afternoon. Inspector Sir.
[man on phone]
Good afternoon. Mr. Anang.
I trust you and your family
are very well.
Very well. sir.
I am calling with respect
to the Bamenda event.
Dates have been set
and we're looking forward to receiving
your representative as soon as you can.
It is next week.
Nine days from now.
and all eyes are on the new institution.
especially yours.
I am aware. sir.
Meanwhile. the inspectorate.
is taking care of transportation.
lodging. and restoration. too.
Thank you. sir.
Have a nice day. Mr. Anang.
You too. sir. Than you very much. sir.
Who was that on the phone?
The inspector.
Is everything OK?
We had a meeting last week
and I spoke very highly and proudly
of the school.
Because of that.
all eyes are directed on us.
especially with the coming of the
Bamenda Brain Box Competition.
You speak like the children
are not ready.
[smacks lips]
They are not.
Not even one.
So. what are you going to do now?
You didn't get a glass for yourself?
[Anang] OK. Abang.
Let's start with this.
LCM.
Do you know the meaning of LCM?
The meaning of LCM.
OK. let's try something else.
What about HCF?
What is the meaning of HCF?
What does it mean?
It is an acronym.
mathematical acronym.
You don't know the meaning of HCF?
You don't know the meaning of LCM or HCF?
OK.
Let me ask you something very simple.
Now. tell me...
what is the past participle of. uh. "see"?
Seeing.
Hmm?
Seeing...
is the past participle of "see"?
Jesus Christ!
Hai!
Can-can you even spell your name?
["Oweh" by Blaise B playing]
You. you look worried.
Those children are potatoes.
Flown out potatoes.
That's what they are.
Not even one of them can try?
Not even one.
They don't even know what LCM is.
Not to even talk of...
a long and short division.
If you ask them
the past participle of "see."
they will say.
"eyes"!
Eyes!
Is it that bad?
Very bad.
Then. I guess you should...
just call the board of inspectors and
tell them you are not yet set.
That is not even an option right now.
What will you do?
I don't know. I'm confused.
Sweetheart.
I know you are a man of integrity.
but I think you should consider
considering that. uh...
that little kid. uh... Ekah.
I think she's your ace card at the moment.
I cannot believe
you uttered such nonsense.
The school must be represented
at the Brain Box competition.
Yes.
That's why he deemed it necessary
to call me in the first place.
even though the event is on the calendar.
and I was there
at the planning meeting last month.
He wants to have it on record
that I failed.
It will never happen.
Nonsense!
Do you know your problem?
Rigidness.
Yes. sheer rigidness.
Anyway.
you either use the little girl Ekah.
or face the shame of your school
not being represented
at the competition this year.
I am off to the kitchen.
Impossible!
Ahh. Madam Bih.
Sir.
Is everything all right?
I'm afraid not. but--
-Would you like to come inside?
-Oh. no. No. no. no.
Let's-- Let's--
We can talk about it here.
First of all. uh. let me.
let me apologize profusely
for the way I talked to you
the last time.
I am really sorry. it was. uh...
At this point. I just-- I've come
to realize the frustrations and the...
yearnings of a tutor
when she finds a brilliant kid.
as she tries to impart them.
Sir?
I am at a crossroad here.
Madam Bih.
it's either we win it all.
or we lose it all.
I still don't understand.
If I may confide in you. please tell me.
what do you think of this girl Diana?
Can you...
vouch for her?
Actually. sir. she is very good.
I've covered more with her
than the other pupils in my class.
She learns very fast.
If I may implore you...
could you reach out to her parents
and get their consent?
Do you-- Is this possible?
I will do my best.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Understand this. that--
We are not only going
to the Brain competition to participate.
we must make a memorable impression.
Of course. sir. Of course.
Do have a goodnight.
Ekah.
Papa.
Me and my brother Lucas...
[in Kamtok] have decided
you will go live with Alhaji Sule.
-[in English] Why?
-You will be woman. my dear.
-[in Kamtok] His wife?
-Mm-hmm.
[in English] Why?
[Lucas] That will happen for all woman.
You be woman now.
No.
[in Kamtok] I am a girl.
Any girl who is as stubborn as you.
is not a girl anymore.
You are ripe for marriage.
Papa. Please.
I will never visit teacher Bihbih again.
Ekah.
This is the best thing for you.
Everyone knows Alhaji Sule is a rich man.
[in English] Now fine married.
he go take care for you.
The story ends so.
Papa. please. Papa. please.
[in Kamtok] I'm not ready to have a child.
I will not be stubborn anymore.
Don't abandon me.
I will never go to that school.
-Brother. let's go.
-Papa.
[in English] Papa. please.
[in Kamtok] Papa. please don't abandon me.
[in English] From tomorrow...
I will not be your papa again.
[in Kamtok] You understand.
Papa. I promise you.
I will never touch any book.
[in English] I swear to God. I'm not going
to even look at Teacher Bihbih again.
Look. Papa. I beg you.
[in Kamtok] Papa. please. [crying]
["Giving Up" by Lesline playing]
Papa. please don't do this to me.
[footsteps]
[in English] What do you want?
I want to see Mr. Solomon.
[In Kamtok] He has gone fishing.
[in English] Why you want to see?
Ekah.
[scoffs]
-[in Kamtok] How else do you want us--
-[in English] Please.
I beg of you.
Please hear me out.
Mm-hmm.
There is a competition coming up.
and she stands the chance to win.
[in Kamtok]
Ekah is not one of your students.
[in English] I know.
But the most important thing is
we can get her registered
and then she will be a part of the--
No.
O-N. no.
Mr. Lucas.
She stands the chance to win
150.000 francs.
And opportunity to study abroad.
-[laughs]
-You see?
Oh! Teacher.
Teacher.
[in Kamtok]
Those are little tricks for kids.
Why would they give Ekah 150.000
when you can keep it to yourself?
Huh?
Leave this place.
Don't disturb my peace again.
[Ekah. in English]
Teacher Bihbih. Teacher Bihbih.
[in Kamtok]
Teacher. please don't leave me here.
-Ekah...
-They locked me up in the room.
[in English] ...is that you?
Yes. teacher. it's me.
Why you have to lock her up?
Stay.
Why do you people have to lock her up?
[in Kamtok] It's none of your business.
Nobody invited you into this.
[in English]
Mr. Lucas. this-- this is barbaric.
[Ekah. in Kamtok]
Teacher Bihbih. please rescue me. [sobs]
[in English] I don't want marriage.
I don't want marriage.
You cannot be doing this kind of thing.
She is only 12. Lucas--
Hey!
[in Kamtok] I run this neighborhood.
I am very well respected here.
If I ask anyone to jump. they jump.
If I tell them to eat debris.
they do it without hesitation.
Don't come here
and try to tell me what to do.
This is none of your business.
Leave this place.
[in English] One.
Two!
Lucas. you cannot marry her off.
She is only 12. I cannot accept that.
I cannot accept that.
Lucas. I cannot accept it.
You cannot marry Ekah off.
You cannot do that.
This is barbaric. This is barbaric.
I cannot accept it.
Cross the line.
[in Kamtok] I dare you to cross that line.
Cross it.
What is it?
["Oweh" by Blaise B playing]
Hey.
Madam Bih.
[in English]
Please tell me something good.
They have locked her up waiting
to be delivered to her husband. sir.
Oh. God!
How old is she?
Twelve.
Jesus Christ!
How can people be so evil?
Does such barbarism still exist?
It's a common practice for them.
Most of the young girls
don't even see anything wrong with it.
And what really squeezes my heart is.
how they want to bury such a dream.
Ignorance.
they say. is very expensive.
[sighs]
What do we do now?
I can't think. sir. I ca-- I can't think.
Please. sir.
can I have some water to drink?
Yeah. sure.
["Oweh" by Blaise B continues]
[heavy knock at the door]
[knocking continues]
[Lucas] Teacher Bihbih.
What is it again?
-Search the whole house.
-Are you out of your mind?
If I hear pin from you again.
[in Kamtok]
you will know what I am capable of!
[in English] Ekah is not here.
I've had enough of this brutality.
Stop embarrassing me.
Don't even try me yet! Don't even try me!
[Bihbih] I said. Ekah is not here.
I told you Ekah is not here.
now leave my house.
I said. leave my house.
[in Kamtok] Bihbih. my brother.
Sule must have his bride.
Lucas.
Let's go before Ekah runs too far.
If I find out you helped Ekah
to run away from marriage.
I will shutdown your school.
You understand? I will shut it down.
["Oya Siya" by Blaise B playing]
Andong.
-Hello. uncle.
-[in English] You don't see Ekah?
[in Kamtok] I just saw her
running towards the seaside.
OK.
Can you help me cross to the other side?
[in English] Five hundred.
O-OK. we will go.
[in Kamtok] The canoe is empty.
Can I add another 500 francs?
[Lucas] Young man!
How are you?
I am fine.
Have you seen Ekah?
Ekah?
Yes. Ekah. she is popular.
Are you talking about Solomon's daughter?
She left.
[Mustapha] Lucas. I told you.
We have to cross over. There's no time.
Young man!
Yes. sir.
What is your name?
Kum Peter.
[in English] Do you know me?
Yes. grand.
[in Kamtok] Think very well.
Are you sure Ekah left?
Or is she hiding somewhere here?
She crossed over. sir.
With another canoeist--
Joseph.
Do you know this other canoeist...
What's his name again. I think Efofa?
[in English] Yes. grand.
[in Kamtok] What happened to him?
He was stabbed.
[in English] Why?
[in Kamtok] Grand. grand.
I am not lying. she crossed over.
She left.
[in English]
Why are you looking me so. grand?
You look me as you think I lie.
[in Kamtok] She left.
I swear to God. if I am lying.
let my mother be stricken by thunder.
Lucas.
[dramatic music playing]
[crowd shouting]
["Ze Bih" by Achuo playing]
["Ze Bih" by Achuo continues]
[singing "Ze Bih"]
What are you doing?
-What are you doing?
-[in English] Remove your clothes!
Remove your clothes!
[scuffles]
[scuffle continues]
[screaming]
["Emotional" by Belvia playing]
["Emotional" by Belvia continues]
If I tell you I am not confused.
then I'll be a liar.
Me too. sir.
We stand to lose a lot
if we do not participate.
We stand to be mocked and
undermined if we send in
a dormant candidate.
And should we come last.
we cannot go for a competition
for another three years. so tell me...
what kind of miracle
should we be expecting
to at least represent us
in an average way?
Ekah is completely
out of the question now.
She got married yesterday.
What?
-Oh. God.
-It's inexplicable. sir.
She has joined the count.
Oh!
-That's so sad.
-But we have two more options.
The first will be a miracle.
OK?
Which is?
We somehow convince Alhaji Sule
to enrol Ekah.
[scoffs]
That will be definitely
be an earth-shaking one.
And the second one?
What if we don't participate?
Choose one.
Commit a crime.
Hope for a miracle. Or...
lose the school.
[door opens]
-Sule.
-[Sule laughs]
-Lucas.
-Good morning.
[in Kamtok] How are you?
-Fine. How are you guys?
-We are very fine.
OK.
So. Sule.
How did it go?
It went down well.
Lucas.
Ekah made me speak tongues.
You gave me a sweet girl.
I can have her all day. No breaks.
-Very sweet.
-[laughs]
She tasted like fresh cocoa yam
mixed with palm oil.
-[both laugh]
-Didn't I tell you?
I told you.
[laughing continues]
I have not been out of this house
in three days.
The wine is too sweet to go anywhere.
-I can't go anywhere.
-Sule. Sule.
-You have done me well. I will be back.
-OK.
-I have a gift for you.
-OK. Waiting.
[door opens]
[Sule laughing]
Lucas.
Take this.
That's for you.
[in English] Hey. Sule. Thank you.
[in Kamtok] You paid your debt very well.
[in English] Thank you. Thank you.
thank you. thank you. thank you...
[in Kamtok]
When you give me something nice.
I have to return that favor.
-[in English] Thank you.
-[laughs]
-[in Kamtok] You are a good brother.
-Thanks and you. too.
[laughing continues]
[groans]
[sobbing]
-♪ Ooh. I feel like giving up ♪
-♪ Ooh ♪
♪ Ooh ♪
-♪ Ooh. I feel like giving up ♪
-♪ Ooh ♪
♪ Ooh ♪
♪ Ooh. I feel like giving up... ♪
[Solomon] What are you doing here?
Papa.
He rapes me every-- every day.
But he is your husband.
[in English] Papa. I beg you.
[rooster crows]
[in Kamtok] Please forgive me for anything
I have done wrong to you.
Don't give up on me.
Papa. it's me. Ekah.
Your "little mother."
Does your husband know you are here?
Return to your husband.
Your husband will not kill you.
[in English] You hear me?
You hear me?
Go back!
["Badluck" by Belvia playing]
["Badluck" by Belvia continues]
[suspenseful music playing]
["Day & Night" by Ewube playing]
Solomon!
[in Kamtok] Solomon. I am here.
Sule.
What is it again?
What is it?
Solomon. do you think I am stupid?
I have told you people
that I'm not a fool.
Nobody can play over my intelligence.
Why are talking you to me like a mad man?
Huh!
Did you just call me a mad man?
Because I can show you
real madness right now.
You always come here
to look for your wife.
Your wife is under your care. Not mine.
Sule is not stupid.
Lucas.
Lucas! Here I am.
I am giving you two options.
Two options.
The first is.
you and your brother
will bring my wife back.
Second option.
Repay all the money you took from me.
If you guys don't do any of these.
heads will roll.
[in English] Sule. come. Come.
[in Kamtok] Didn't I tell you.
in case of any issues.
you should contact me first?
-Why did you bring it to my brother?
-No. no. no.
Go. I will bring her.
No. No. No.
I won't buy that.
I am not leaving without my wife.
Sule. what is going on here? I am lost.
What is it?
-Nothing. he is--
-[Sule] Nothing?
Did you say. nothing?
You are calling 130.000 francs nothing?
He owed me 64.000 francs.
Then he borrowed more money from me.
Totaling 150.000 francs.
so he gave me your daughter as payment.
[in Arabic] I swear.
[in Kamtok] If I don't see my money
or my beautiful wife.
right here. right now.
-I will slaughter this man.
-[Mustapha] Exactly.
[Solomon] Lucas.
Lucas!
You tricked me.
You used my daughter to pay off your debt?
Lucas!
Bro. go home. I'll fix this.
This is nothing.
[Sule] Nothing?
[Lucas groans]
[Sule] Please. let me slaughter him.
["Oya Siya" by Blaise B playing]
[man] Andong.
What is it?
Ekah. Ekah. Ekah is at Pa Juh.
-Andong. What is it?
-Ekah. Ekah. Ekah is at Pa Juh.
Uncle Solomon.
Uncle Solomon!
Uncle Solo.
Uncle Solo!
-Uncle Solo! Uncle Solo!
-Andong.
-What is it?
-Ekah.
[in English] My Ekah?
[in Kamtok] Where is she?
-Pa Juh!
-Is she OK?
[woman. in English]
What number must be multiplied by four
to make the sum 44?
Eleven.
That's correct. Ms. Diana.
Fred does two sit-ups in January.
four sit-ups in February.
eight in March.
sixteen in April.
If this pattern continues.
how many sit-ups will Fred do
in May and June combined?
Ninety-six sit-ups.
Thirty-two in May and...
sixty-four in June.
[woman] That's very correct.
Derick.
How many days and hours
are equal to 200 hours?
Eight days and eight hours.
[woman]
That's very correct. That's good.
Region.
False.
Seven hundred and ninety-five.
1961.
[woman] That's correct.
False.
One hundred and eighty degrees.
True.
Now. we will give room
for each candidate to pose a question
to their opponent.
If a candidate answers
their opponent's question.
and this opponent fails to answer
the other candidate's question.
that candidate will be crowned winner.
Now. Mr. Derick.
your last question to Ms. Ekah.
True or false. The name "Teddy bear"
is used to describe a soft toy bear.
The name comes from
President Theodore "Teddy" Roosevelt.
who once set a bear cub free.
True. True.
Correct.
Very correct.
[applause]
Ms. Ekah.
Your question to Derick.
Ms. Ekah?
[Ekah] The youngest woman who win the...
Prize. Peace. Peace Prize...
The youngest woman to win
the Nobel Peace Prize. is who?
Mr. Derick?
Nothing?
What's the answer. Ekah?
Malala Yousafzai.
Yes!
[excitedly] Nonsense.
She was born in Pakistan.
And said that...
girls should receive education.
[in Kamtok] She was shot
by the Taliban in 2012.
[in English] But she did not die.
[woman] That's very correct. Ms. Ekah.
Finally. we have a winner.
Ms. Diana Ekah.
[crowd applauds]
[in Kamtok]
My girl. Annabel must go to school.
Yeah.
[mouthing. in English]
My name is Diana Ekah.
I'll be 12 years old.
I am married because...
because...
because I wanted to go school.
[in Kamtok] I know my father loves me.
Where I come from. the fish people
don't believe in educating girls...
I can't even believe
I'm standing here today as the best.
[in English] Yes.
The best!
Best all-round student
in a school such as this?
Thank you. Bodian Tech.
It is such an honor.
And thank you.
Nnlom Nnam Hand For Children.
for believing in me.
Most of you know my story.
Making it from the far-flung beach
of Menchum right up to this podium.
capacitates me to say that.
real dreams...
go beyond wishes and imaginations.
They burn like gleaming coal.
inundating every nerve
in our body towards that
passionate relentlessness.
and God.
in His awesomeness.
always sends that one person.
who is ready to burn with you
towards the actualization of your dream.
Thank you.
Teacher Bihbih.
For being my light
in a place of no lights.
I dedicate this today to you.
and may your soul rest in peace.
Malala said. and I quote.
"There are two powers in this world."
"One.
is that of the sword.
the other.
the pen."
"There is a third power.
stronger than both."
"That of women."
Congratulations. Bodian Tech.
and happy graduation to all of you.
Thank you.
Thank you all.
Thank you. Happy graduation.
And see you on the other side.
["Abeg" by Ewube playing]
[no audible dialogue]
♪ I'll cast my breath on the water ♪
♪ I've learned to cry undercover ♪
♪ I'll shed these tears on another day ♪
♪ I've paid for sins of another ♪
♪ Black ship. born sinner ♪
♪ I'll find a way to break this chain ♪
[no audible dialogue]
[song continues]